>> Jen Kramer: So the next question that
i had was something about exceptions
to rules, okay?
So, so far we've been writing
our CSS just like this,
we've been listing our HTML tags,
we've been writing
all of these declarations about how we
want each of these HTML tags to loolk.
Which is great, but it affects every HTML
tag that has that particular styling
on the whole web page, right?
Which sometimes you don't want.
Sometimes you want exceptions to the rule.
So you can code an exception to the rule
using something called a class, okay?
Classes can be called anything you want,
although I
recommend that you call them something
that tends to be self documenting.
So when you look at the name of the class
you kind of have a sense of what it
does, okay?
So, for example, let's say that I would
like to take this paragraph right
here with this picture of the kitten,
and let's just say that I want to style
that one paragraph somewhat differently
than all the other paragraphs on the page,
right?
Let's say that I want to make the font
bold, and maybe a little bit bigger.
Sound good?
Okay, so maybe I'm going
to call this class bigbold.
>> Jen Kramer: Just like that, all right?
What we've done here is we've started
the class name with a period, okay?
Classes start with periods.
So that's the name, bigbold,
and then we can go ahead and
type in our description here.
So this would be font-weight: bold.
And maybe we want the font size to be,
I don't know, 1.5 rem or
whatever it is that you wanna do.
Maybe this one's 1.3 rem,
something like that, okay?
So that's the first part,
you can go ahead and
write your class,
then you need to apply your class, okay?
So come on over to your paragraph, and
we're now gonna add an attribute in our
HTML, and that attribute is
gonna be the class attribute.
And we type in the name of our class.
So this is bigbold.
Okay?
Just like that.
So this is our class name.
And we're gonna type in the name
of our class, no period.
Okay, just bigbold just like that, and
then that is how it will know which
class to go on ahead and try.
So we have bigbold right here, and
there it is right there in the paragraph.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Will everything compile and
run if you reference something
that you've never called.
>> Jen Kramer: Yes.
Okay, so what he said was,
[LAUGH] if you write
classes that you never
actually call in your HTML,
so let's just say I write a class
called testclass, and I don't know.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
now I have a class over here.
I'm not actually calle
it anywhere in my HTML.
Does anything blow up?
Nope, nothing blows up.
Nothing bad happens.
Likewise, if I had over here in my HTML.
Let's say I had a class of
testclass over here in my HTML,
but I don't actually
have the class in my CSS.
What's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 2: Nothing.
>> Jen Kramer: Nothing.
Nothing.
Okay?
You may pull your hair out and
go, why isn't my style working?
Well, you didn't write it yet.
Okay, but nothing bad will happen.
Your web page is gonna display just fine.
All right.
Good.
So let's go on ahead and save.
And let's look at how our page is looking.
>> Jen Kramer: Here you go.
So there's my paragraph, bigger, bolder.